And then higher secondary came around…
"If you study well
until the tenth grade,
"then you have some time
free to yourselves."
You'd be done with tenth grade,
with twelfth, then undergrad…
He's paying you a compliment,
first say, "thank you" and then…
"How does a 20-year-old
become an entrepreneur?"
First, they have to
recognize their good looks.
We were made to stand according
to our height during the school assembly.
Toward the end, he's going to say,
"OK, this is my analogy."
Until I could figure out
what my next move was.
"I don't need to attend
a high-end college,
"I'd like to attend a regular college
that has minimal fee."
I was tall, I had worn my mother's suit…
It possibly can't get any worse
than that, right?
You then start showing up confidently.
There is a long journey
in between those events.
"Where will she live?
Which of his friends stay there?
"How will she manage?" Etc., etc.
You can criticize foreign brands
as much as you want, it's fine.
So you figured out that
there are no such products in India,
and you're gonna have to make it yourself.
We asked them about their whereabouts,
what they were up to,
"Get this packet for us",
and then that packet gets lost in transit.
"Why isn't anybody doing anything
about this in India?"
It might be a possibility
that it just can't happen in India.
I want to make a shampoo, how do I do it?
All that information
is very easily made available to you.
You can have handmade batches in the lab.
"All right, my child.
Come, we shall see what can be done."
And nobody even used to write to us
back in the day.
We were supposed to make five pieces,
and we handmade a batch.
We found a really premium toy shop
in South Delhi…
Now, we couldn't gather feedback
from kids,
we obviously had to make the pitch
to their parents.
"How will we make 20 products?"
We used to call this
"bulk orders" back then.
Who is going to explain that
to the consumer?
Anyone can go ahead
and replicate your product.
"What are you giving for free?"
…nobody in the Indian beauty and personal
care industry had done any innovation.
"The English came, and they brought
with them their thick creams.
"The English might have left,
but they left their creams behind."
It's your autobiography.
"A biodata was created
around the time of my marriage.
"I haven't created any bio after that."
No, your bio was formed,
it's just that you didn't create one.
Separation is always sad.
No, but I think it's common in India,
around 95-98%.
This is, like, bound to happen.
From his office, steal some fabric,
and go to the tailor, get it stitched.
Sit there and instruct him.
"Cut it like this, like that."
There's a lot of hard work in that too.
To plan, make chits, mapping it all.
I said, "Forget all this."
A businessman carries
a suitcase to the office.
In 5th standard, I carried a VIP suitcase
for the first time.
Yes.
I have never seen cash before.
The cloth used to cost 1 rupee.
Selling the 1 rupee material
for 1.25 rupees. That was the best.
Or how to enter.
The boss can go anywhere.
He said he wanted that trade.
Give it to me for one rupee,
I want this deal in my name.
How old is your company?
He said, "It hasn't been established yet."
Fine, please provide a name
to be written in the contract, at least.
The fabric won't be clean,
it won't be of good quality.
And I have to sell X quantity.
So, make 4,000 of these,
or make it in four different locations
because if I get small amounts
from everywhere, my contract is closed.
It is very important to be
an exporter these days.
The dollar was around 25-26 rupees.
I took my bag and left.
It was the first time that had I ever
seen a dollar, so I left at once.
Travelled 25 kilometres
on a pedal rickshaw to reach the hotel.
There was a board
above the rickshaw stand,
it read "Muhammad E Group",
and I went right in.
They showed some samples
and took the first order.
Sushil Sen is there.
Upon hearing about arts, it felt like…
I'll pay back my father. If he has spent
4 crores, then I will pay it back.
-The debt will be cleared.
-You've returned the amount.
Yes, I mean, what I have done.
I said, "Look…"
This was not a loan.
You have to learn
the Snake and Ladder game.
But, yeah, my sister's wedding
was to be arranged.
Marwari's stress a lot about that.
Two to three crores are required for that.
You realize that there's only one left.
Three belong to the daughter.
There's only one left.
So, I thought,
it would be a brand from Spain.
I came home and opened the Apple…
the desktop.
It's a 1,600 square feet house.
It has been like that from the start.
If there's no PnL,
there will be no income.
And I didn't know anything about
the gestation period or valuation.
I thought, why spend money at a hotel,
I'll just sleep here.
"You attended the school, right?"
I said, "Yes, I did."
I said, "Yes, I went there."
He said, "Do you pay the school fees?"
I said, "Yes."
The fee for the business
is to claim.
That's how you'll learn.
Your father is not going to teach you.
You took the order, you placed it,
and opened an office.
And you don't want to see it.
You have your eyes closed.
You go there and see that
the light is not proper,
I am sure you were frustrated
and must have sent some messages as well.
He isn't going to be satisfied anyway.
That is the journey of WhatsApp.
And I was the one who had to go abroad.
But Mom used to beat me
if I scored low marks.
We were very scared of Mom.
We were so scared of her
that we would greet her from far away.
How can you be so innocent?
How is your saree whiter than my saree?
We should talk about that.
If we ask a banker,
he will not say that it is fine,
in today's immaturity.
And if we look elsewhere,
we were busy with friends.
So we didn't know whom to ask.
I asked someone
what "touching feet" means.
He said it means you don't have an ego.
He isn't giving you anything
from the ground underneath.
And if they place their hand on you,
that doesn't mean anything.
There was a ladies' shop
behind the Hind Mata theater.
That place was scary.
Why would you create a wall in your office
saying that you are busy?
Nobody is busy.
You are getting the design, then why?
They said, "I received your number
from someone."
I said, "I'll send you a number,
please come."
It will keep happening.
There will be one person in the office,
always roaming around.
The staircase has to be white entirely.
It was the era of the East India Company.
It was a Chinese wallet
on which "Jack & Jones" was written.
So, he said, "Write this."
Why was there "Jack & Jones"
on a Chinese wallet?
Our time will also come.
The depreciation we're getting at the end,
is coming back in the form of taxes.
I thought this depreciation…
was some sort of chaos entering our home.
I did not realize that it was our money
circulating and coming back.
You are already earning profit.
You are earning 10-15 crores.
You have to pay this much interest.
So, you will get this, and in the end
when you get a profit of Rs.10,
you will get 100 from depreciation,
12%, then the building, etc.
This gets deducted and in the end,
you've only paid this much tax.
I said that's what I want to make.
A factory is not made like this, but…
I don't care
about your technical problems.
We have to make it and it would require
explaining it to another person,
the drawing, etc.
I said this guy must be big,
don't know for whom.
Even for you guys,
I had to quickly see,
have some shame and read about the people
you are meeting.
No, this was when I had started,
when I was 19 or 20.
I'd go to clubs, smoking was my problem,
not the drinking.
I'd hop onto a train,
head straight to the next country,
so that I could save money on hotels.
If her son asks her for something to eat
at 12:00 in the night…
"As if you take great care of me."
I'm not patient enough
to wait out the gestation period…
It would make me even more restless.
"How long must I wait?
"I've been waiting for three years,
six years,
"hoping that the bulb comes on,
when will it come on?
"Where is the switch?"
That is exactly what I'm doing.
I mean, you looked at him
with such disdain!
"How I stole cigarettes,
or how I borrowed it from someone,
"how we managed to go
on our bike, all that…"
"I don't have enough money to burn."
…make a balcony, make it out of sandstone.
Do whatever you need to do.
He must have gotten
his entire house painted for that much.
He must have sent about 100 pieces;
he could paint both the exterior
and the interior of your house.
It is an embroidery order
from Armani, after all.
…"we aren't getting enough footfall."
The person on the 21st floor will say,
"What are you doing, sir?
Nobody even visits our floor."
You don't know if you're gonna
open the store or not,
if you can design it or not,
if you have an architect or not,
will it get constructed or not,
if the goods will arrive or not.
If it arrives and gets sold out, then when
will the second round of material come?
You're not gonna say,
"Pull down the shutter,
"we'll go buy new yarn, make clothes,
bring it back, return after a month."
Maybe your father has that kind of money.
The Gandhi ji khadi,
the kind you get at Udyog Bhawan.
T-shirts can't be made out of khadi.
-It can't be made?
-It can't be made? Why?
"A person from Ludhiana said,
'Sir, the blingy red shirts
are in vogue these days.'"
"Someone else says,
'Send us more chequered shirts.'"
"Some other person says, 'Sir,
increase the length of the sleeves.'"
You're going to receive
so many comments in this country,
that your brand will become something else
entirely if you try and handle it.
"The judge will now hear your arguments."
This is the right time.
When a person deboards a train,
you get to know that this new person
is an alien who's an alien national.
Not alien in the sense of an "alien."
You find it in US Immigration forms, yeah,
"Are you an alien?"
I mean, fine, it's one thing
to educate your kids.
It's basic amongst the Marwaris
and the Agarwals.
Education is a basic criteria for them.
Planes hadn't even flown over
where we used to reside.
We didn't even know
what it is that a pilot does.
But it is something
that the elder sister says,
and she happens to be the smartest
in the family.
And if she's saying it, then we will
also aspire to become the same.
There's no confusion about it.
And after that she said "entrepreneur"…
A lot of beatings, scolding…
-A darling.
-Yes.
I thought that I must
take full advantage of it.
Often times, people tend to
exaggerate about themselves.
Why is that? Because they feel that
if they say something wrong,
you know, what will it mean?
"Has the money arrived?
Have you deposited it in the account?
"Is everything all right?"
"This is where my barsati is,
"get off at this metro station
and come over here in an auto."
"This is where my barsati is"?
He said, "I'll have to come by auto,
you don't have a car?"
"What am I going to get
by being bothered by it?"
'You're not gonna get more money
in your pocket."
Like you were saying earlier,
"What can be worse?"
So, what you have…
You can't deny your reality…
How many out of the ten managed to make it
all the way to your barsati?
The entire entrepreneur crowd made it.
After that, I went about doing,
how do I put it…
if there is a problem with your vehicle,
take a different path.
So I chose a path
which allowed me to meet more people.
And they happened to be entrepreneurs.
And I befriended all of them.
Humility doesn't mean that you only say,
"No, I don't know anything."
You come across as underconfident.
According to me,
you should have confidence.
There definitely has to be something
that one doesn't understand.
All of my hometown, Raigarh,
would have gotten ladoos
if I had gotten into Infosys
as an "assistant technical engineer."
I genuinely feel that something
fortuitous happened
that led me on my entrepreneurial journey.
At that time, it was 71 rupees
to a dollar which meant 71 lakhs.
I was a Rebel Without a Cause…
And so I hadn't watched
a single movie throughout the year,
but when I did save some money
from my internship stipend,
we went to watch a movie
called The Social Network.
In that there is a person
named Peter Thiel
who gives the first $100,000 cheque.
I was just overjoyed by the fact
that I am going to the USA.
I was under the impression
that my life is made.
I was told that I needed
to get my biometrics done,
provide them with a letter,
and you get your visa.
…this was a once in a lifetime opportunity
to go the US,
because not much else
was happening in my life.
And I was really eager to learn.
"I want to pay you a visit
and see your office."
Sahil says,
"I am not aware of who the chairman is,
"but there is a Ritesh seated next to me,
maybe he can help you."
"If someone is addressing me
as the chairman, let them."
I mean, it feels nice to think that
we can also be a chairman.
You'd already become one.
"Let us meet once at the very least."
"It was lovely meeting you."
"No problem whatsoever.
He's willing to not draw any salary.
"Such a highly-educated person
is coming to work with us."
…like, "OYO hasn't even launched…"
No, no, with cheating. You can pass
school examinations by cheating.
Nobody even pursues the dream
of becoming an IPS officer.
IPS is such a far-fetched dream,
they don't even apply
for the position of a bank PO.
So if you become an IPS officer
in spite of hailing from Chambal…
There is a stigma
of being a native of Chambal.
A European spirit has come
and taken residence within your soul.
We had already become a chain
of around 15,000 hotels.
Since you are an Agarwal, a Marwari,
it's a burden for a 20-year-old guy.
Therefore not raising capital
was not a choice.
So raising that initial bit of capital
was absolutely necessary.
The global expansion after it…
The other person will always think,
"Okay, they made this mistake
but they are still saying
"that they will bounce back."
How will that happen?
There isn't a lot of difference between
action and words in our line of business.
Be it e-commerce, gaming…
Take any industry, for example…
"Look, we don't know
what is gonna happen to OYO's stock.
"We don't know
what is gonna happen to the company."
…and we were going through a pay cut.
We don't want to be a company
that has 200-300% growth.
As long as these three stats are healthy…
If that doesn't happen, we will not grow.
But I can read everything
and I am comfortable
being able to distinguish
between the noise and the signals.